# Simulation_Cases_MiniCer
Simulation cases described in the article, "Coupled CFD-DEM simulation of pin-type wet stirred media mills using immersed boundary approach and hydrodynamic lubrication force": https://doi.org/10.1016/j.powtec.2024.120060

**Pre-requisites:**
LIGGGHTS, OpenFOAM-6, cfdemCoupling, and their corresponding dependencies, Python (>3.6)
The versions of simulation softwares used in the simulation cases are taken from Institute for Particle Technology's (iPAT) GitLab repository: https://git.rz.tu-bs.de/partikeltechnik/

**Description:**
This repository provides the simulation cases to generate and run the simulation cases of the "stirred media mill" (MiniCeR). The simulations are setup to couple the CFD and DEM via two-way coupling and the corresponding files in the "Run" folder contain the post-processing scripts to extract the "collision/stress energies" and assemble them into a "collision/stress energy distribution". The simulations are setup in three stages, namely, "Init", "Stable", and "Run". The combinations of operating settings can be easily modified and the respective cases can be generated using the python scripts in the corresponding repositories. The scripts to run the simulations on the HPC-cluster systems are also added.

**_a. Init:_** This stage is to initialize the system with the particles. Three insertion faces are used to generate and insert the required number of particles (calculated according to their size and filling degree) into the system. The "base case" folder contains the necessary DEM scripts of the case setup and the required CAD (geometry) files. The python script "generateCases.py" generates the requested simulation cases according to the specified operating settings. It uses the help of "MakeCases.sh". The "variables_Modify.py" file modifies the variables in the generated folders of the simulation cases to alter the operation setting values. The "jobfile_Modify.py", and the "jrun.py" are used to modify the cluster job files and run the submit the simulation jobs onto the cluster, respectively.

**_b. Stable:_** This is the first stage couples the CFD and DEM. The restart files generated in the "Init" stage are used to start the coupling and run for a specified time. It follows the similar system as init, i.e., to generate the cases and modify the variables, but with additional generation and modifications in the CFD folder i.e., the mesh generation, etc. The simulations are launched in the same way as described above and the corresponding restart files are extracted.

**_c. Run:_** This second stage of the coupling of CFD and DEM launches the srabilized system and extracts the collision energies and stores them in ".txt" files which are postprocessed later to assemble the stress energy distribution. The post-processing to extract the stress energy distribution is done using the "Stress_Energy_Calculation.py" and "generateAndRunPostFiles.py", which generate corresponding folders of post-processing in each of the corresponding case folders.
